Introduction

Blockchain technology has inspired a generation of technologists to create one of the most prolific ecosystems of invention in recent history. The nature of these organizations is truly different from things we have seen before, sharing much of their structure from the open-source software projects that they stemmed from. The blockchain industry's open source roots has led to organizations composed of people working on shared ideas despite having wildly diverse backgrounds, interests, geographies, and physical characteristics. This melding of the minds has led to a explosion of innovation, with each tool in the space introducing inventions that simply couldn't have been thought of before without the concepts introduced by distributed ledger tech. The promise from the industry is massive and the momentum carrying this innovation is exponentially larger than the force that drove their open-source predecessors to such importance in the world. Some of this increased interest can be explained by the promise of the technology alone, but for anyone who has read a headline about the space it's clear that what is driving the industry is not plain altruism. It is the introduction of blockchain's unique funding mechanism, the cryptocurrency, that enabled the massive funding which launched these open-source projects from the obscurity of internet message boards to the headlines of international news outlets.

What will result from these cryptocurrency funded projects remains to be seen, but a new store of value has attracted millions of onlookers willing to bet and comment on which will reign supreme. These new entrants do not need to know anything about the open source history or the underlying values. The surge in innovation has been counteracted by a hunger for power and overwhelming greed that could destroy the vision on which this technology was founded. The promises of decentralization, egaltarianism, more efficient markets, and stronger democracies have been drown out by in-fighting and bickering which has led the world to the conclusion that the industry cannot live up to it's own ethos and will not be able to stand on its own. Promising the world innovative governance and more efficient markets and then displaying horrible organizational and financial management is an embarrassment to the industry. In its present state the blockchain industry is an messy grouping of individuals who cannot practice what they preach, and it is in the process of being captured by those who have proven that they can run markets and organizations. Blockchains could be repurposed into special purpose databases that give minor security and efficiency improvements for large companies that provide paltry social benefit compared to the presently held visions of blockchain's future.

To avoid capture of the entire industry, transforming it into a consultancy for legacy instutitions, the innovators must reshape the inevitable force of greed that follows any form of value. Successful social and economic revolutions do not come about by attempting to overpower the tendencies and biases of the individual. Instead, the revolutions learn how describe these tendencies in a way that we can design systems that redirect them towards a more advantageous outcome. The blockchain revolution should not concerned with determining "what" that advantageous outcome is, but one of "how" we as individuals collectively establish what will be most advantageous. It is critical for the long term success of the technology that blockchain organizations prove that they can more effectively provide benefit to society in a way that supercedes anything in operation today. For blockchains to be successful they must abandon attempts to overpower existing systems and must redesign them founded in extreme transparency and voluntarism. When a group of voluntary participants can honestly verify that their hopes were adequately fulfilled by an organization we will then be able to make a more than theoretical argument that these tools are of measurable benefit to society. But we must first invent a form of feedback from stakeholder to organization that can provide such verification in a way that has better prevention of misinformation and coercion.

Nudge is a framework that aims to create better organizations. The aim is to use concepts from blockchain technology to create more effective feedback loops between stakeholders and organizations. The strategy for doing so is to reimagine the cryptocurrency wallet by blending investable value (capital) and spendable value (money) in a way that better informs blockchain organizations who will eventually be the recipients of this value. This information will help management of these organizations define verifiable measurements of societal betterment. This is accomplished by building methods for financial and organizational management into the functionality of the wallet. By using simple staking mechanisms and various consensus/verification methods the platform allows for organizational initiatives to be directed by anyone who has tangible and verifiable interest in their outcomes. Forms of interest could be the cryptocurrencies themselves, contingent agreements to purchase/sale of cryptoassets, or contingent agreements to of public marketing efforts via social and traditional media outlets. Stakeholders can stake various forms of interest that have measurable impact on market value and public perception. Stakeholders are able to create initiatives outside of the acknowledgement of the organization, but organizations are given outlets to engage with stakeholder contract at their own discretion. Organizations can selectively react to high impact community driven initiatives, incentivize stakeholders to hold tokens long term using contigent dividends, or incentivize social media marketing schemes for major milestones. This allows companies to manage the flow of the the various forms of capital held by stakeholders and vice versa. An endless variety of governance mechanisms can extend the wallet to formalize strategic corporate initiatives without requiring it to stem a single source of control.
